In 2042 the world is faced with increasingly global pressure in terms of business competition, and learners are demanding higher-tech learning solutions. The landscape of higher education has changed dramatically since 2012. Given various free trade agreements, the stronger role of the IMF and the World Bank, in 2035 a treaty was negotiated between multiple countries to create a level playing field in terms of publically funded post-secondary education. In short, countries that are signatories to the Equitable Acquisition to Education Treaty (EAET), including Canada, the US, the UK, Australia, China and India, have agreed that post-secondary education will not be funded from tax dollars. 


The EAET caused a dramatic increase in tuition fees, increased stratification of the ‘have’s’ and ‘have not’s’ of education, and gave industry and commerce a much larger say in the development and delivery of educational programs. Post-EAET multinational corporations developed bursary programs for employees and became directly involved in the delivery of post-secondary education to their student employees. Employees of these multinationals thus have relatively cost-effective access to post-secondary education, but those not so lucky to be employed by these conglomerates pay exorbitant tuition fees.
 Rapid changes in technologies are a concomitant force that had an undeniable impact on the delivery of education in 2042. Interactive technology platforms created widespread opportunities for the integration of education systems around the world and further provided the opportunity for widespread institutional amalgamations. National borders are meaningless in the education system of 2042. Amalgamations were based on natural alignments based on specialty programming (e.g. MIT and India Institute of Technology), linkages to multinational corporations (e.g., Apple University), or previous arrangements from the days of international education agreements. But whatever the manner in which the amalgamations occurred, there is a clear stratification of ‘global universities’ in 2042. Global universities are constantly trying to anticipate niche trends and to work with industry to develop programs to meet these changing needs. The next amalgamation is always just around the corner.
 Together the EAET and technological change have fostered the development of a global education system that seems paradoxical at its core: the post-secondary system of 2042 is comprised largely of largely market-driven, niche programs that are delivered to huge audiences of learners around the world.  To meet the demands of learners wanting to structure their own learning experiences, mass customization of educational offerings is required.  Universities have moved away from absolutes to principles, assessing students only in a specific context tied to a specific outcome. A new "credentialing" structure is being designed by many of these multinational institutions. Credentials are awarded to individually negotiated outcomes (involving very active employer involvement), not predetermined programs. 
 In this new post-secondary world, fewer professors are required and more teaching assistants are needed.  Professors and teaching assistants do not need to be co-located.  Students hand in assignments electronically on a daily basis. 
 Traditional liberal arts universities do exist but these are for only the most elite of society since they are entirely funded from tuition fees and private sources. Many students are attracted to the liberal arts elite schools because of their many foreign exchange programs. 



 A Day in the Life of a Student
 Robert Childan is 18 and lives in Warsaw Poland. He has just finished high school and is in the process of shopping for a package of post-secondary institutions. In 2042 students can package degrees and credentials from conglomerates of post-secondary institutions around the world.
 Robert goes online and connects with Iman who is a sales representative/student recruiter for Global Education Systems (GES). GES boasts more than 200 universities as clients. The tagline of GES is, “your educational match is just around the world”. Iman comes into Robert’s living room as a hologram and begins to listen to Robert’s interests. Robert, whose mother works in technical support at the online Warsaw Today magazine, has an interest in social justice issues. Robert has received a generous bursary from Warsaw Today that he can ‘spend’ at any global university he would like, though Warsaw Today does reserve the right to approve his choice. Robert thinks that social justice makes sense to his. He’s luckier than many of his friends because with his bursary, he can take some time to explore possible future careers.
 Iman tells Robert about the International Social Justice program that operates between a number of advanced institutions of higher learning in the Northern Hemisphere. Trinity College in Dublin, Ireland and the Canadian College Consortium are part of this initiative. 
 Robert is very interested and Iman connects Robert to an online faculty facilitator who tells Robert more about the program. Robert signs up for a 3-month weekly hologram seminar where he will meet with a group of 8 students, each from a different country around the world. The goal of the seminar is to discuss the Social Justice Program and to determine Robert’s interest and capacity for enrolling in this 3-year program.
