Frank’s Scenario
================

A broad shift in global and local economics is underway. The turbulence of unconstrained markets has been harnessed, finally, by industrial movements focused on regional efficiency and autonomy. In Canada, individual provinces control their natural resources and corporate practices. The water wars continue but are contained regionally. Global warming has brought more drought, but also a greater focus on regional solutions. Health care and educational services are also regionally focused and are delivered through governments working with corporate partners. Students integrate their educational activities with their economic contributions. Employment is almost universally required for students to pay for tuition. Educators are typically corporate employees and work mostly through the efficient means of virtual space. In British Columbia, the delivery of educational programs is streamlined and integrated by one large corporate stakeholder, the Cinnadella corporation. Continuing through the spectrum of adult learning, each Cinnadella student works with a sustained and customized learning portfolio. The goals of educators and the initiatives of students are partly integrated with corporate culture, but vestiges of the traditional university culture remain.

With few exceptions, education is sponsored by Cinnadella in exchange for service to the corporation. The connected themes of career skill and personal development are integrated into the educational system and reflect corporate values. Systematic approaches to lifelong learning serve to enhance the employment prospects of individual students.

All former post-secondary institutions in BC were integrated into the Cinnadella University Partnership (CUP)  more than 20 years ago. The four campuses of the former Kwantlen Polytechnic University still serve as educational hubs. The former Langley campus serves as CUP’s Centre for Desalination and the former Surrey campus is Highcastle Manor, a student residence. The two other former campuses, Cloverdale and Richmond, remain true to their original purpose: the former Cloverdale campus is CUP’s corporate hub south of the Fraser, and the former Richmond campus is the centrepiece of CUP’s School of Design.

The Ministry of Education and Cinnadella work together closely and are, in many ways, indistinguishable. Credentialing is managed by the Ministry and matching services are provided by CUP. Admissions and transfer services (the former BCCAT, now long gone) are integrated at CUP, which handles the regional complexities of an integrated provincial, federal and global post-secondary system. Internationally, broad-based agreements between CUP and other corporate institutions allow for online and in-person opportunities for students to build their educational profiles and to follow career opportunities. CUP’s educational programs are focused on market efficiency and industrial development but also encourage personal exploration and discovery. The historical, cultural and personal themes that traditional universities once cherished are somewhat in evidence at CUP but are not foundational to it purpose.

At CUP, lifelong learning means lifelong integration between education and employment. We’ve learned — from the economic upheavals of 2014 and 2019, from the water wars that plagued us in the twenties — that the essence of global stability involves the synthesis of corporate governance and social development. CUP offers an extensive array of programs to meet these goals, and students pursue a multitude of educational activities.

Instructors at CUP widely view their role — at every level — as founded upon principles of student virtual support. Content is ubiquitous and available for a fee. Tuition is prohibitively expensive unless students contract with Cinnadella for loans and service in kind. The role of educators is to contextualize content within the corporate structure and to work with students to codify their learning by way of practical application. Technology facilitates much of this process. With broadband access approaching 100 percent (except in some areas still affected by the heat storms of the last decade), students initiate their Digital Educational Portfolios upon initial enrollment. Portfolios are maintained throughout the life of each employee and serve to document their achievements and goals. Portfolios are the property of students but are also available to Cinnadella for purposes of employment review.

Recreation and leisure activity are viewed as important but not foundational to the overall health of the society. Rather, corporate allegiance is the key to personal success. The health crises of the twenties and thirties — when the lives of millions of people were shortened by preventable diseases of lifestyle — have mostly been replaced by broad corporate initiatives to keep students involved in productive activities. ‘Technology attachment disorder’ (TAD) is evident in about 30 percent of the population in British Columbia. The main symptom of TAD — an inability to communicate face-to-face — is a consequence of the educational imperative for intensive digital engagement and virtual activities. Thus, while technology is a cornerstone feature of the delivery of educational programs, CUP recognizes that technology immersion cannot be the sole method of student participation.

In the lower mainland, most people live in large housing complexes with attached medical clinics, care facilities, and schools. Most of these facilities are operated by Cinnadella or its subsidiaries. Virtual travel is the norm for employees at every age. Schools act as nodes for virtual interaction within a wide network of student activities that extend beyond the school itself. The classroom is a meeting place for students and a project space to work on educational projects. Virtual educators help to prioritize, streamline, and develop the experiences of students. Educational models focus on efficiency and performance as well as personal development. For students today, the classroom is CUP, the school is their way of maximizing economic and personal development, and the educator is a virtual guide.   


A Day in the Life of a Student
------------------------------

Frank Frink and his friend Juliana are reclining on the lumpy sofa in Frank’s dorm room, discussing their upcoming convocation events. Neither really wants to attend these formal celebrations of their achievements, but both of their families have insisted. Educational milsetones, after all, are important. When Frank’s parents came to Canada twenty years ago from Norway to work for the Cinnadella’s Fish Farming Group, they brought their socialist ideas about education with them. Although the Frinks are a simple middle class family and unable to pay the exorbitant tuition fees charged by the CUP, Frank’s family encouraged him to work toward qualifying for one of the employer-sponsored seats in the Singh School of Entrepreneurship (SSE). Frank slogged away at his online sales job with Coastal Tourism and earned a sponsored space in the company’s credential program in Advanced Ecotourism. The sponsorship allows him to work four days each week but also to attend school one day a week and on evenings. Frank also qualified for a basic dorm room in the newly-constructed Highcastle Manor. Entirely built from recycled plastics, Highcastle is popular among eco-zealots, but Frank thinks it has a strange, acrid smell – almost as though it was built atop a landfill.

Frank initially thought he’d be bored in the Eco program, but his involvement in the mandatory service learning project has piqued his interest. Frank has helped to map the migration and survival patterns of the birds at Boundary Bay. In some ways, he’s begun to follow the paths of his parents: working with nature, close to the ocean, advocating for the right balance between humans and the sea. 

Juliana reminds Frank that tomorrow is the last meeting of their student cohort. They will both miss those afternoons hanging out in the Singh Student Learning Centre, lazing on the faux-leather seats in the atrium, working on group projects, listening to Dr. Tagomi regale them with stories of crazy tourists and awe-inspiring hikes. All the stories are in the video archive, of course, but Frank still enjoys hearing them in person. Besides, Dr. Tagomi is free and open with her stories, whereas each video viewing costs Frank just a little bit more of his dwindling reserves of capital. Dr. Tagomi has the same kind of schedule as Frank: Monday to Thursday at the Tourism Secretariat, SSE on Fridays for tutorials. But all this is about to change, Frank realizes: soon he will be moving on.

But how much of a community is he moving on from, really? Many of his courses have taken place online, and Frank is aware that he has met, in person, perhaps 20 percent of the graduating class. Sure, he’s seen them all online – seen a few of them way too much, in fact – but there are always differences between the virtual and the real. He’s not sure he knows any of them all that well except for Juliana, who also lives in Highcastle and who, like Frank, is probably going to be paying off tuition for the rest of her life.

Frank asks Juliana if some of the virtual tutors will be at convocation. She’s not sure; most of them work from home and don’t attend campus much. Besides, it’s quite possible that some of them will have course responsibilities at the same time as convocation. It would be a shame, Frank muses, not to see Dr. Childan, who was a great virtual tutor. He told stories, like Dr. Tagomi, but Childan’s stories were usually about the past, about the ebb and flow of history, about how we repeat so many of our past mistakes without realizing what we are doing. Frank is sure that if Childan is at the convocation he will take pains to point out to everyone that it is the hundredth anniversary of the Pearl Harbor attacks. It’s one of Childan’s favorite stories: how the Americans never imagined an attack was possible, how they ignored the warning signs, and how they were eventually devastated by the precise planning of the Japanese. Juliana likes that story too. In fact, she posted the famous Schelling quotation about the attack as a persistent post on her wall display. Every morning, after the display wakes her and scrolls through the trajectory of her day, Juliana sees the last, insistent reminder. It says:

     There is a tendency in our planning to confuse the unfamiliar with the improbable. 
     The contingency we have not considered seriously looks strange; 
     what looks strange is thought improbable; 
     what is improbable need not be considered seriously.

Frank is not sure how the next phase of his life will unfold. He doesn’t know how he will pay off his educational debt, and he isn’t sure he wants to work for Cinnadella for the rest of his life. But at least he has choices, and a curious temperament, and after tomorrow a credential that will set him on his way. He lies back, gazes at the ceiling, and wonders about his future.


Core Concepts for This Scenario
-------------------------------

Student as student (traditional role)
Hybrid model of education (user pays, with some social support)
Local emphasis for educational services
Technology as core feature of education
