Frank Frink and his friend Marji Bassi are reclining on the lumpy sofa in Frank’s dorm room, discussing their upcoming convocation events.  Neithim really wants to attend these formal celebrations of their achievements, but both have parents that have insisted.  When Frank’s parents came to Canada twenty years ago from Norway to work for the BC Fish Farming Group, they brought their socialist ideas about education with them.  Although the Stensson’s are a simple middle class family and unable to pay the exorbitant tuition fees charged by the GTU (Group of Three Universities) institutions, Frank’s family encouraged him to work toward qualifying for one of the employer-sponsored seats in the Singh School of Entrepreneurship (SSE).  Frank slogged away at his online sales job with Coastal Tourism and earned a sponsored space in the company’s credential program in Advanced Ecotourism.  This sponsorship allows his to work 4 days a week and attend school one day a week, supplemented by evening online courses.  It also provides for a cheap dorm room in the newly constructed Melville Manor.   Entirely built from recycled plastics, the Manor gets lots of media attention in the e-zines, but Frank still thinks it has a strange smell. 
Frank had initially thought she’d be bored to death in the Eco program, but his involvement in the mandatory service-learning project has piqued his interest.  Frank is helping to map the 75,00 fish farms that run up and down the BC coast for inclusion in a new Ecotourism.  She’s begun to see why his parents are so excited to come home, and has begun to imagine spending a few years working on this project post-graduation.  
Tomorrow, Friday, Frank will attend his very last tut-class.  She looks forward to Fridays now, when she gets to hang out in the Singh Student Learning Centre, lazing about on the faux-leather seats in the atrium while working on group projects, and then in the afternoon entering the McEwan Policy room for Dr. Johnsson’s tutorial.  As the adjunct professor for his program, Dr. Johnsson regales them with stories of crazy tourists and awe-inspiring hiking and boating experiences of his past.  Frank has already heard most of these stories since they are on the video downloads she had to purchase as part of the course, but they are always much better when told in person.  Dr. Johnsson has the same kind of schedule as Frank – he works Monday to Thursday in his job with the Tourism Secretariat and then comes to SSE on Fridays to teach his tutorials. Frank can’t wait to see what the Learning Centre looks like next week when it’s transformed for convocation.  If she’s lucky she and his parents will get to shake hands with Parv Singh, CEO of the School and meet some of the students in his program she’s only ever met online.
Marji is less excited and a lot more anxious about his convocation.  While his two years at the Regional Online Consortium have been interesting, they have also been entirely online.  And after two years, with a general business diploma in hand, she’ll have his first opportunity to meet many of his classmates at convocation.  Although she’s “seen” all his teammates regularly in his MOOC courses, she expects to be surprised when she meets his virtual friends face-to-face.  And since convocation takes place in Pattison Place, the new convention centre built on top of the old landfill, she knows there will be thousands of graduands and that many from his class won’t be able to be there in person.  She’s also not sure if his TE’s will be there; given that they regularly work from home supporting online courses, it’s quite possible that they will have course responsibilities at the same time as convocation is going on.  Given the relationships she’d developed with a couple of them, she would have liked to have had the opportunity to meet them. 
She will be excited to get to see Dr. Fleming, who will welcome grads to the event.  She’s heard so much about his history as one of the gurus of the Canadian Credentialing Consortium as well as the founder of ROC. And Marji is hoping that attending convocation may help him decide if she’s going to even think about registering for the final year of the degree.  It took him four years to save the money to take the diploma, and it’s been a hard slog working full-time at Coastal Tourism with Frank while doing his coursework at night.
