A broad shift in global politics is underway. The turbulence of unconstrained markets has been harnessed, finally, by social movements focused on the provision of basic human needs. The scrabbling of nations for control of natural resources has given way to more collaborative strategies and practices. The water wars are over. Global warming has brought more drought but also has encouraged greater gumption and cooperation. Health care and educational initiatives have begun to focus on regional approaches and to emphasize the role of autonomy and sustainability. In British Columbia, the delivery of educational programs is streamlined and integrated by local stakeholders working with government partners. Beginning in kindergarten and continuing through the spectrum of adult learning, each learner works with a sustained and customized learning portfolio. The goals of educators and the initiatives of learners are closely entwined.

With few exceptions, education is free. The connected themes of career skill and personal development have become integrated into educational models at every level. The primary and secondary systems, as well as the first two years of post-secondary education, are funded entirely by the provincial tax base and provide general education for all. Post-secondary learners pay nominal fees for the latter two years of degree programs and for graduate school. Systematic approaches to lifelong learning are the key drivers of the education system.

A single public post-secondary University (Lower Mainland University, LMU) and a single public trades and technology school (the BC Institute of Technology) serve British Columbia. In the private sphere, The University of British Columbia caters to specialized and professional programs. All other former post-secondary institutions – Simon Fraser University, Kwantlen Polytechnic University, Langara College, Vancouver Community College, and so on — were amalgamated into LMU more than 20 years ago. The four campuses of the former Kwantlen Polytechnic University now serve as satellite sites for LMU. The former Langley campus serves as LMU’s Centre for Oenology and the former Surrey campus is the Centre for Business Alignment. The two other former campuses, Cloverdale and Richmond, remain true to their original purpose but are not part of LMU: the former Cloverdale campus is BCIT’s hub south of the Fraser, and the former Richmond campus is the centrepiece of the private BC School of Design.

The Ministry of Education and LMU work together closely and are, in many ways, indistinguishable. Credentialing is managed by the Ministry and matching services are provided by LMU. A government administrator is the Chief Operating Officer of LMU. The Dean of Oenology is jointly appointed to both the university and the provincial Ministry of Education. Admissions and transfer services (the former BCCAT, now long gone) are integrated at LMU, which handles the complexities of an integrated provincial, federal and global post-secondary system. Internationally, broad-based agreements between educational institutions allow for online and in-person opportunities for learners to build their educational profiles and to follow diverse opportunities. While industry plays a key role in the development of educational credentials in both local and global contexts, LMU also maintains a broad range of programs focused on the historical, cultural and personal themes that universities have cherished since their inception.

One concrete result of the turbulence and successful navigation of the previous two decades has been the broad recognition of education as an integrative process of lifelong learning. Whereas previous generations paid lip service to notions of lifelong learning and personal development, we now know that we neglect these themes at our peril. We’ve learned — from the economic upheavals of 2014 and 2019, from the water wars that plagued us in the twenties — that the essence of global citizenship is personal development. Sweeping changes to mental health legislation — provoked, perhaps, by the Mentall riots of 2031 — have led to the deliberate embedding of personal development as the core of formal education. Moreover, learners typically remain involved in some type of educational initiative for most of their lives. An extensive array of post-baccalaureate programs offer a multitude of ways to fuse educational plans with career activities and personal goals.

Instructors within educational institutions widely view their role — at every level — as founded upon principles of facilitation, mentorship, and learner advocacy. Content is ubiquitous and free. The role of educators, therefore, is to contextualize content and to work with learners to codify their learning by way of practical application. Technology facilitates much of this process. With broadband access approaching 100 percent (except in some areas still affected by the heat storms of the last decade), learners initiate their Digital Educational Portfolios in kindergarten. Learner portfolios are maintained throughout the life of each learner and serve to document successes, reflections, and general experiences within the educational sphere. In British Columbia, LMU manages the portfolios and makes the data accessible to learners wherever they are. The User Data Access legislation ensures that learners own and have access to their materials.  

Recreation and leisure activity are viewed as foundational to personal development and to the overall health of the society. All citizens are encouraged to pursue leisure activities and to integrate those activities into their daily schedules. The health crises of the twenties and thirties — when the lives of millions of people were shortened by preventable diseases of lifestyle — have mostly been replaced by broad social initiatives that facilitate health and leisure activities in local communities. However, health some health challenges persist: ‘Technology attachment disorder’ (TAD) is still evident in about 20 percent of the population in British Columbia. The main symptom of TAD — an inability to communicate face-to-face — has led to many new treatment strategies, but our progress has been slow and the problem persists. Educational programs and workplaces include prevention-based approaches to minimize the probability of TAD. Thus, while technology is a cornerstone feature of the delivery of educational programs, we recognize that technology immersion must be balanced with interpersonal experience.

In the lower mainland, most people live in large housing complexes with attached medical clinics, care facilities, and schools. A well-developed transportation infrastructure provides for self-driving vehicles, an advanced light rail system, and person-powered bikes. Both personal and public transportation provide a full complement of digital services. With the fossil fuel crises of the twenties now well behind us, both local and international travel are the norm for learners at every age. Schools act as nodes for interaction within a wide network of learner activities that extend beyond the school itself. The classroom is a meeting place and project space for learners to bring together their diverse activities and to share with peers. The educator as facilitator helps to develop and nurture the experiences of learners. Educational models have moved beyond the old hierarchies of instructor authority and expertise. For learners today, the classroom is the world, the school is their way of traveling through that world, and the facilitator is a traveling companion.   


# RAL edits complete to here.

A day in the life of a learner

Sally, who is 45, wakes up and turns on her EEPN – 100002234fCAN. Sally tabs through the many successes she has experienced in her education program to date. Her portfolio is chock full of letters of recognition form past professors and supervisors at work. There is a nice note about the value of her service learning experience in Oslo Norway back in 2030. Sally has a degree in business and works as a business manager for The BC Oenology Learning Centre. She is going back to school as part of a new government sponsored lifelong learning initiative and is hoping to obtain a diploma in aesthetics. She fills out the LMU application and attaches the documentation that will give LMU access to her EEPN.

