Tagomi’s Scenario
=================


It is midnight. Tagomi Caréz wakes up, rubs her eyes, and in a moment of disorientation wonders if she is back at the landfill. She can smell the acrid air, and she listens for the sounds of the trucks – all night, all day, every night and every day. But she does not hear the sounds of the trucks; no, just the quiet whirr of fans shuttling air in and out of her room. And the smell? A sense memory, nothing more. A legacy of youth spent wandering mazes of detritus, searching for that one glittering thing that would save them all from servitude. She never found it, of course – no one did – but she did get out. Eventually, and after many trials and false starts, she found her way to Highcastle, the educational arm of the Cinnadella Corporation.

Tagomi leans toward the retinal scanner, waits for the system to check for outstanding infractions or fines, and logs in. She scans the most recent timestamps in her academic passport: 9 hours this week so far. She’s getting closer. Maybe a month more. Someone rolls over in bed in the next room – little Frank, maybe, or Juliana. It’s crowded in there with four kids and two small beds; no wonder there’s so much jostling and moving about at night. But not for much longer, Tagomi thinks. They’ve already come a long way in a few short years: away from the landfill, across the mountains to the city, and into a housing hub where they can at least have a chance. Her parents died in the shadow of that implacable monstrosity – Cinnadella Corporation Landfill 26 – but Tagomi won’t. Nor will her kids.

She sees the path clearly in her mind’s eye. Another year of down-payments for the Highcastle Entrepreneurship degree, then the rest is simple interest. A lifetime of it, sure; but in Tagomi’s mind it’s a fair price. And five years of service for Cinnadella with their cola plants in Africa won’t be so bad either. It’s a good deal for the equivalent in tuition. She’s been serving the same master for a long time, making these kinds of deals, inching her way toward something she can’t quite see and can’t quite imagine: a better life, more freedom, less urgency. She thinks she’s closer now, certainly closer than what might otherwise have been. At least she has the ability to buy an education. Between daytime work and nightime studying she is just able to make a go of it. Her parents weren’t so lucky.

Besides, the cost for completion of this phase is not so high. Africa will be interesting. She’ll have her choice of cities where she can virtually serve out her time without having to leave her home, her family, and her friends. And the kids appreciate the sacrifices and choices she is making – at least on a day when everyone is feeling generous. But most days they just keep moving, crunching through the next tasks and tallies, trying to grab the light wherever they can find it.

Frank and Juliana have already started to think about their own paths. Early days yet, but Tagomi thinks the kids might make it even farther ahead than their mother. Frank, her eight-year-old, has started looking at virtual living in various places. He probably will never leave the city in which they live, but Tagomi hopes he will at least see the last of the shore birds at Boundary Bay. They’re almost all gone now. Tagomi understands that Frank will spend most of his life roaming in virtual space. And he might even go to Highcastle. Juliana, for her part, wants to go. She’s been working for a few years, since she was six, doing odd virtual jobs and stock data entry. She’d like something new, something with a future. As for the twins, they’ve still got a few years before Cinnadella will find a use for them.

Tagomi hears a plane rumble overhead, on its way to somewhere or from somewhere. It doesn’t matter much these days – to or from – it’s all the same. Everything in one place. At least, one virtual place. Tagomi thinks about some of the cities she might visit in that virtual world: Singapore, Colombo, New Oslo. She wonders about the final achievement of her degree and the opportunities it might bring. She hopes for more freedom, more choice. The will and the power to make her own life. Not many people can do that anymore. But maybe she can.

Tagomi reflects on her interaction yesterday with President Bhatti. Although she’s read many of the President’s daily updates and has participated in a number of year-end forums, yesterday was Tagomi’s first opportunity to participate in a virtual seminar with the President of Highcastle. The seminar was only open to employees in the final year of their program. With her holo-band on in her apartment, Tagomi had the familiar sensation of sitting in a virtual space – in this case, Dr. Bhatti’s office in the Cinnadella Presidentium in Bangalore. She and Robert, an older employee from Cascadia, sat beside one another and shared an excellent view of the city. Although Tagomi knows that President Bhatti is an incredibly busy woman supervising an educational conglomerate with more than four million employees, professors and guides, the President made each of the seminar students feel welcomed and appreciated. Robert noticed a chess board near the window, gazed at the pieces for a moment, then offered a move. President Bhatti quickly offered a counter-move, and the gathered party joined the game. It was fun for Tagomi, a sign of what might her future might hold, a talisman. She wants more of this.

But right now she needs to get moving. She has only an hour to finish preparing her presentation on landfill governance. At four AM local time the virtual group will gather and the employee presentations will begin. Tagomi needs to make some final edits. She needs this presentation to stand out. Her professor, Rudolf Cho, will attend the virtual classroom today. If she wants to impress him, Tagomi’s presentation needs to be perfect. 
